---
permalink: /about/
title: "About"
---
I am a recent graduate from University of Bristol, where I obtained my PhD in December 2020 under the supervision of Prof. Trevor Martin. However a significant portion of the work was also performed under supervision of Dr Anne-Laure Jousselme at the NATO STO Centre for Maritime Research and Experimentation, where I spent 9 months as a visiting researcher in 2019 and have been employed full-time since July 2020. The title of my thesis is "Large-scale heterogeneous intelligence fusion" and it is concerned with three main challenges in uncertain information fusion using the theory of belief functions (also known as Dempster-Shafer Theory or theory of evidence) - exploitation of context, reasoning about multiple entities simultaneously (situation awareness) and explainability or provenance (identifying the sources which contribute the most to the result).

Before starting my PhD I graduated in Engineering Design, a five year course focused on equipping its graduates with a broad range of soft and hard skills in a variety of engineering disciplines while ensuring a high level of specialization in their chosen field. During that time I have taken units across engineering disciplines, specializing in Control Systems. Although I was formally in the Department of Mechanical Engineering I was able to take a large number of units related to electronic engineering. During this time I spent a year as an intern at GE Aviation Systems, where I acquired a systems engineering mindset, which turned out to be very useful during my PhD and afterwards.

Because of the above, I sometimes jokingly consider myself a jack-of-all-trades, with knowledge across many disciplines, despite my specialization in artificial intelligence and information fusion. I am a fast learner, which made the transition from engineering to AI research very smooth and I am looking forward to new challenges.

In my free time I enjoy a variety of sports - I used to do Jiu-Jits and Judo when I lived in the UK, but never returned to regular training post-covid. In the summer I enjoy wakeboarding, while in the winter I prefer the snowboard. Recently I have renewed my interest in language learning, bringing up my Italian and Spanish to conversational levels (although they do seem to compete for brain space, and as one gets better the other gets worse). Finally, I also enjoy travel (in particular prolonged backpacking trips), video games and cooking. 