---
title: "VAST 2018 Case Study"
categories:
  - Projects
tags:
  - machine learning
  - deep learning
  - belief functions
  - use case
---

The VAST 2018 was one of the datasets I used during my PhD as a case study to showcase heterogeneous information fusion and the provenance techniques I had developed earlier. Some of these results were presented as a poster during the BELIEF/SMPS 2018 conference in Compiegne, France, but otherwise have not been published - I considered submitting this to FUSION 2019, but run out of travel budget due to other conferences. Furthermore I was starting my secondment at NATO STO CMRE at the time and would have been stretched thin. 




### Problem overview
In this case study we attempt to answer the questions stated in VAST mini-challenge 1 from 2018. The following is a shortened backstory from [VAST website](http://vacommunity.org/VAST+Challenge+2018). All names and locations are fictional.

he IEEE Visual Analytics Science and Technology (VAST) Challenge is an annual contest with the goal of advancing the field of visual analytics. The VAST Challenge problems provide researchers with realistic tasks and data sets for evaluating their software, as well as an opportunity to advance the field by solving more complex problems. In 2017, the VAST Challenge results suggested that the Kasios Furniture manufacturing company may have been a primary contributor to the apparent reduction of the number of nesting pairs of the Rose-Crested Blue Pipit (RCBP). Kasios supposedly used the banned substance Methylosmolene in their manufacturing process. They dumped process waste in the northeast region of the Preserve and Methylosmolene was detected in their smokestack emissions. Kasios now claims that the analysis was flawed and biased. To back up this claim, they have provided a set of Pipit bird calls, recently recorded across the Preserve, with locations of where they were recorded. Another collection of bird calls from the preserve that has been vetted by various ornithology groups as having accurate identifications is provided along with corresponding geospatial information and a timestamp.

The problem to be answered is as follows:

1. Using the bird call collection and the map of the Wildlife Preserve, characterize the patterns of bird species over the time of collection (as per official problem statement). Here what we want to focus on in particular are two major questions - is the population of the RCBP waning? And is there a specific pattern in the behaviour of the RCBP which can be attributed to the location where Kasios is dumping the process waste?

2. Does the set of bird calls provided by Kasios support their claim that Pipits are being found across the Preserve? Here we are not concerned with the statistical impact of sample size of the test set, but rather try to answer the following questions: 
    * Are the locations where the pipits were recorded consistent with the patterns of life determined in (1)? 
    * Are the actual recordings provided by Kasios consistent with the RCBP recordings from the vetted dataset?

3. Formulate a hypothesis concerning the state of the RCBP and whether Kasios is responsible to it - whilst providing a clear track of evidence used to support the conclusion.


### Dataset overview
The dataset consists of the following

* A map of the Wildlife Preserve and the location of the Kasios process waste dump site
* Library of 2082 bird recordings im mp3 format with varying lengths each with the corresponding metadata: label as call or song, label by bird type (including 187 RCBP labels), quality rating, X and Y coordinates of the location where the recording was taken and a timestamp
* 15 recordings labeled as RCBP provided by Kasios with X and Y location coordinates 
